And he took him everywhere he went with him. He went
and took my father. And because he was a
sharpshooter in the Army, he was discharged six
months ahead of time. And he went on home, back to
his hometown and married my mother. And stayed
there a very little short while.
They decided
to come to the United States because the taxes were
so high in a way they couldn't hardly live with what
little they were making. And they had to pay so much
duties and different things for different kinds
of taxes that they just couldn't make it. So they
moved to Louisiana, landed in New Orleans. And
they had one little girl. They brought from Italy,
and one of them, I mean, the only one that was born in
Italy that came to him came to Louisiana. And they
worked in the cane fields.
The day, they put in about anywhere from 12 to maybe
11 hours a day, and then at night, 50 cents a day. And
then at night, he would go work at the sugar mill,
and the sugar mill, they paid him 50 cents until 12
o'clock at night. And the next morning, of course,
he had to go back to work at 6 o'clock. He had a
brother-in-law here in Bryan that was farming. He
probably had his own land at the time, but I don't
remember whether he did or not. But anyway, they
asked him to come move in Bryan with him. So when
they got to Bryan, they started farming on
different places on 3rd and 4th, I mean on Havas,
until they was able to buy him some mule. And then he
went to work on third and fourth, what they call.
I guess what it was, the corn, the owner of the land
got one-third, and the man that was working the
land got two-thirds. And the cotton, they got
three-fourths, and the man that owned the land got
a fourth. So he worked like that from one place to
another. He just missed the 99 flood. He was in what
they call right at the bottom around Copy Bridge
somewhere. I have never been able to locate where
they did live because actually they didn't go back
there for a long time. I don't doubt whether they
ever went back there. So they moved just ahead of
the flood, and they worked... farmed until 1902,
renting land and farming them third and fourth.
And in 1902, we bought a farm. I was born in 1900, and
then when I was two years old, we bought this farm.
It was between, on Dilly Short there, between two
weeks and creeks. And I stayed with him and went
part of the time, went to school, and part-time
worked with him in the field. until we paid the
land, by the way, in a couple of years. And we had a
very good friend of the family of the Carrabbas and
the Whittyards who were akin to us with a man named
Sam Parker Sr. And he loaned us the money to buy the
land. And in a couple of years, we had it paid for. So
I went on from then on until I was gone and went We
moved to Dallas one time. I might mention this
ahead of before, but we moved to Dallas and
Memphis, Tennessee and Memphis, Tennessee,
because we had a lot of snow and the boys couldn't
get no jobs. We stayed there about a month and went
back and moved to Dallas and opened a grocery
store. And since the my brother was old enough to
begin to notice girls, they forgot about the store
and left me and my dad around. My dad couldn't speak
English. And I was too young to run the store, so we
was just about to go broke, and we decided to come
back to Brian. So we lost a whole year's crop, plus
about $2,000 for the trip and back. But anyway, we
come back and got our land back. And the man that we
rented the land to made the biggest crop that would
have been made in that place. I think he made 39 or 49
bales. I don't remember. So we lost that crop. Then
we had to buy a team again. And when we left, we sold
it for nothing. Then they'd buy new again, and it
cost us quite a bit of money. But anyway, I think I
mentioned this before. My mother was very
conservative, and she had $4,000. No one knew but
her. And we took that $4,000 and bought all our
teams and got started back in the little cattle
business, which You would buy a calf then for about
three and a half, four dollars, a pig for about two
and a half, three or four dollars. And then in 1920,
my
brother married in 1919, and I got married in 1920.
And
I farmed three years after that, after I'd gotten
married. Two years in my father-in-law's place,
who was Lou Bridgetti. And one year in John
Grover's place. And I made the best crop there in
this place that I ever made in all these rest of the
two years.
And right around 1923, I think it was probably
September or October, I moved in town. And I went to
work for Lawrence Grocery Company, worked for
them 26 or 27 years. And then Lawrence Grocery
Company, of course, I might have mentioned this
before, they sold out. And I went to work for
Kimball. And I've always wanted a retail grocery
store. And I worked for Kimball, and it wasn't a
very satisfactory position. I was a salesman, by
the way.
I had my vacation coming, and I told the boss that I
was quitting, but I wanted to take my vacation that
I had coming, which was two weeks. And I took 10 days
of it and went to California to see my sister. And
from there, we bought this store, which was on 25th
and San Jacinto.
We stayed there and by that time the Army Air Base
opened again and we'd done fairly good business
and made a little extra money.
Did
you have any trouble getting this first job
because of being Italian? No, I did not because The
only, because there's a couple of friends of mine,
John Collette and Jack Shimon, who were real good
friends of mine. Well, in fact, we were a little bit
kin, kind of distant kin. And they were trading
with Lawrence Grocery Company, and they asked Mr.
Lawrence if they needed a man. I wanted to move to
town. It was very easy. I went, the boss
interviewed me and showed me all that heavy stuff I
had to live. But through a good friend of mine
there, I didn't do much of that. He finally got to
liking me, and I... He gave me an easy job, finally
became an assistant shipping clerk. He was a
shipping clerk. And from then he quit and I got his
job and was making a little more money. But you talk
about discrimination, I probably said this back
there before, that there's always been a little
discrimination between most any of the, in this
part of the country you find discrimination
against Italians, In the other parts of the
country, you might find discrimination against
the Polish or the Bohemians or whoever you want to
call it. But still, now, you can notice that there
still is a little discrimination when it comes to
election, when it comes to social affairs. Well,
most times, you can notice a little
discrimination, even today. But it's not like it
was because there's business interest innocent
to the fact that we want their business and they
want our business. And they don't show it as bad.
After all, you know, we're all foreigners in this
country. You know, she was born in England and came
down here. But anyway, we're still foreigners.
And they just, because they happened to come here a
little bit before we did or before the other guy
did, there's no sense in it. And as far as
discrimination with the black people, we had them
working for us on the farm, and we played ball. I
belonged to the team. There was three of us, me and
myself and two brothers, and the rest of them was
black. We were playing baseball. How'd you do? We
done fine. We got along fine. Never had a bit of
trouble with them, either of them today. Very few
of them live in, I think, one of the guys that still
live in is Sun Bell, who has resigned from the city
council just this year. And we're still friends.
I invited him to my house one time to come watch TV,
and he He wanted to go around the back door. I said,
no, you come in the front door. I said, that front
door is open for anybody, any of my friends. And he
never did forget that. It was the first time I'd
been in a white man's house. He said I didn't have to
go in from the back door. But it's not, the
discrimination now is not too bad with the Italian
people or different nationalities. There's
still a lot of discrimination with the blacks. Is
there a large Italian population here in Bryan?
Oh, it was, but most people, as they got married,
there were no jobs for them here because Bryan was
rather small. They would all move to Houston.
Sometimes I think that 90% of the Italian people in
Houston come from Bryan. Of course, now all the old
folks have passed away. Sometimes I feel like I'm
about the oldest one in the Italian race.
Descent's here, but I'm not. It's two older than I
am. But my brother, he's 87 years old. And then
there's an old man, Mr. John Palisotto. He's 92, I
believe. And, of course, I'm going to be 76 in
August. And I'm getting
up to the age. I don't know why. I don't know
anything else I could tell you. Do you have any
plans? Do I have any plans? Yeah. My only plan now is
mostly, I'm not saying this boasting or anything,
is serving God and working with the church. That's
all I want. Most of that's my biggest job. Go there
and... straighten out things for them in the
evening, get ready for the morning, for the night
service. We have service at 7 o'clock. And I have
everything ready for the priest as they come in
now. All they have to do is start with the service.
And take care of the countenance, the board of
countenance over the call. And they don't have to
worry about anything. And I just love doing it.
Then I usher every Sunday, every Saturday evening
at 7 o'clock, then Sunday at 7 o'clock. And one
thing they won't trust me is with the money. They do
their own counting. They have a bunch of counts of
money. And every collection, every service, you
know, they have a collection. And not each one
count their own money. But I don't count any of the
other money, nor the night, because I don't have
time. Because I've got to be cleaning up after they
get through, put stuff away, and get it out of the
way for the day. They may have a way with something.
And my plans are
just living and trying to live the best peaceful
life I can and wait for the good Lord to come home,
boy. That's about all I know, unless you want to ask
me anything else. No, I think that'll be it. Thank
you very much.